the Israeli military has rescued one of
the hostages taken in the October 7th
Terror attacks led by Hamas Israeli
officials said that kayid faran aladi
was found in a t tunnel in southern Gaza
he's the first hostage to be rescued
alive underground aladi is recovering in
hospital where his medical condition is
described as normal Hamas is thought to
be still holding around 110 hostages
about a third of them are believed to be
dead
well Israel's prime minister Benyamin
nety who spoke with alqadi shortly after
he arrived in hospital he avowed to
bring home the remaining
hostages welcome home faradi I
congratulate the Israeli Army and Shin
Bet on another successful rescue
operation we are working tirelessly to
bring all our hostages back we are doing
this in two main ways through
negotiations and through rescue
operations both approaches acquire our
military presence on the ground and
continuous military pressure on AAS we
will continue to operate in this manner
until we bring home
everyone I'd like to welcome Laura
Blumenfeld now she is the Middle East
analyst a New York Times bestselling
author and a senior fellow at the Philip
Merill Center for strategic studies at
John's Hopkins school for advanced
International Studies welcome to you
hostage rescues by Israel are relatively
rare what do you make of this latest
release
rare indeed it's only the fourth hostage
rescue in 10 months where the Israelis
and and multinationals have been held in
Hamas um look he humanizes the hostage
issue it's hard to keep those faces to
believe that they're real they're not
just posters they're real people um and
this was a father of 11 who came out
squinting because he hadn't seen
sunlight for months a 40 lbs thinner um
I would say the second notable thing is
he's a Muslim he's an Arab he spoke uh
you know Hebrew though because he's a
citizen of Israel and the commanding
officer the Israeli uh military officer
who welcomed him greeted him in Arabic
which kind of pushes back on the
narrative that Israel is an aparti
country but more more realistically a
kind of multinational multiethnic
Community um the 12 Drew children who
were killed by the holla rocket last
month um that kicked off the most recent
cycle of retaliation in the north also
weren't Jewish so I think that's notable
as well and then finally I think that
you know today while we were celebrating
the rescue of one hostage there was a
funeral for another one one of the
bodies that was recovered last week
there were six hostages who were not
rescued so I think that adds some
pressure to reach a negotiated deal I
wanted to ask you about that how do you
think this affects any potential
ceasefire deal to bring remaining
hostages
home well at the hostage fam's note that
there are at least 70 of the 100 um
remaining uh hostages who they believe
are alive and it's not realistic
although prime minister Netanyahu says
they can do both they can do rescue
operations but also hostage negotiations
it's not realistic to think that they'll
all be freed by the military I do think
that today's operation puts pressure on
senoir the leader of Hamas as well as
the unsuccessful attack by Hezbollah on
Saturday night because it just shows
that you know Hamas is on the defense
and the military um is not the way that
they're going to achieve their goal so I
do think that's a good sign it's harder
to reach senoir now um you know he's cut
off he's in the tunnels the the
negotiations do continue though I
believe that they're um they're
continuing tomorrow in Doha with
low-level working groups we at the kind
of nuts and bolts details unfortunately
the devil in this case is in the details
and it's going to be hard to get there
Laura a bit more broadly Israel is
fighting conflicts on on multiple fronts
including in in Gaza as well as against
Iran's various proxies like Yemen's
houthis and Hezbollah in Lebanon as you
just mentioned how long do you think
Israel can withstand all
this well look the Iran and its proxies
are playing the long game um they have a
Doomsday Clock ticking backward in in
Palestine square and tahon to 2040 where
they predict that Israel will be
annihilated that's one of the reasons
why prime minister Netanyahu is pushing
so hard C for what he calls total
Victory I mean for him it's you know the
hostages today yes those are the faces
that we see but if you trade them for
Palestinian prisoners those are going to
be 10 or 100 more hostages tomorrow this
is why he feels like it's so important
to push back in that way and re aieve
the deterrence that they've been trying
to reclaim after the surprise attack on
October 7th so much of this war has been
about intelligence the the the the
achievement by taking out uh hania in
tahon which was an intelligence coup for
Israel and shuker who was the commander
of Hezbollah in Lebanon for Netanyahu
that's his way back to Redemption
showing not only can they be smart they
can be smart and strong that was Middle
East analist Laura blumen F there thank
you very
much thank you